NEW: websockets to live sync user object with client (#148)
avantifellows/plio-backend: docs/DEPLOYMENT.md

       13. For auto-scaling, go with `Do not adjust the service's desired count`  for staging.
       14. Review and create the service.

11. Create and connect a `redis` cluster on AWS Elasticache to your backend app

>       1. Go to the ElastiCache dashboard on AWS. On the top right corner, select the region where you want to launch the Redis Cluster and click on **Create** button

Reviewer: We have used ` ` everywhere - so, let's avoid ** or * for consistency.

>       2. Select **Redis** as your Cluster engine. In the checkbox below, choosing between *Cluster mode enabled* or *Cluster mode disabled* is your choice. Plio uses *Cluster mode disabled*. More details on cluster mode [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/red-ug/Replication.Redis-RedisCluster.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      2. Select `Redis` as your Cluster engine.
      3. Select `Cluster mode disabled`. More details on cluster mode [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/red-ug/Replication.Redis-RedisCluster.html)
```

>       3. Choose **Amazon Cloud** as your location in the **Location** section

Reviewer: full-stop is missing in many sentences.

      4. Fill all the details in the **Redis Details** section. Some pointers below:

>          1. Choose a name for your Redis Cluster, e.g. `plio-redis-staging`. Description is optional

Reviewer: We have not written about things being optional - only things that one needs to do.

>          2. For **Engine version compatibility**, it's recommended to choose the latest one.

Reviewer: instead of recommended, we have used as "do this" vs "you can choose to do A or B"

>          3. For **Port**, enter the port you want for the instance. `6379` is the default port for redis and is recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         3. For **Port**, enter `6379`.
```

         4. For **Parameter Group**, nothing needs to be changed. This gets decided when choosing between cluster mode enabled or disabled
         5. Choose your **Node Type**. Plio uses `cache.t2.micro`. The size of the node should depend on the workload of your apps in production. For more details, see [this](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/red-ug/nodes-select-size.html#CacheNodes.SelectSize)
         6. For **Number of replicas**, choose the number of read replicas that you want for this cluster. It's recommended to have 1 or more replicas. If you choose to have 1 or more replicas, make sure you select *Multi AZ* checkbox. It provides high availability and failover support. More details [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/Concepts.MultiAZ.html)
         7. Select **Advanced Redis settings** and fill in the details as mentioned below:

>             1. For *Subnet group* you can create a new group or use an existing one. For staging, subnets were created in step `2.vii`. You can create a new subnet group, name it accordingly and add the subnets (created in step `2.vii`) to that group. A VPC was also created in step `2`. Add that VPC ID in the appropriate selectbox. *NOTE*: If you selected Multi-AZ checkbox in step `11.iv.f`, then the subnet group will require two or more subnets in the group. For example, in staging environment for Plio, three subnets have been created and added to the group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            1. Choose the Subnet attached to the Elastic IP and the VPC created above. If you selected Multi-AZ above, then the subnet group will require two or more subnets in the group.
```

>             2. For *Availability zone(s)*, choose *No preference* – ElastiCache chooses the Availability Zones for your cluster's nodes. If required, configure your own availability zones. For more info, see [this](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/red-ug/RegionsAndAZs.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            2. For *Availability zone(s)*, choose *No preference*. For more info, see [this](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/red-ug/RegionsAndAZs.html).
```

>             3. For Security groups, choose the security groups that you want for this cluster. A security group acts as a firewall to control network access to your cluster. You can choose use the Default security group for your VPC or create a new one.

Reviewer: We should not go into explaining what each feature of AWS does as Vaibhav has mentioned - that's the burden of the developer.
```suggestion
            3. For Security groups, choose the Default security group for your VPC.
```

>             4. (OPTIONAL) Configure encryption options according to your requirements.
>             5. (OPTIONAL) Configure logging. For Plio, JSON logging has been configured at CloudWatch Logs
>             6. (OPTIONAL) Rest all the options are not mandatory and are left up to the user to configure according to their needs

Reviewer: We only writing about things to do as mentioned above.
```suggestion
```

         8. Click the **Create** button. A Redis Cluster will get initialized and once it becomes `available` you will be able to continue with the steps ahead.

>          9. Grant access to your redis cluster by following the steps below-

Reviewer: Some of these should be separate points and not sub-points.

            1. Go to the AWS EC2 console [here](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)
            2. In the navigation pane, under **Network & Security**, choose **Security Groups**.

>             3. From the list of security groups, choose the security group for your Amazon VPC. Unless you created a security group for ElastiCache use, this security group will be named **default**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            3. From the list of security groups, choose the security group for your VPC. Unless you created a security group for ElastiCache use, this security group will be named **default**.
```

            4. Choose the Inbound tab, and then do the following:

>                1. Choose **Edit** -> **Add Rule**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               1. Choose **Edit** and select **Add Rule**.
```

>                2. In the **Type** column, choose **Custom TCP rule**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               2. Choose **Custom TCP rule** as `Type`
```

>                3. In the **Port range** box, type the port number for your cluster node. This number must be the same one that you specified when you launched the cluster. The default port for Redis is `6379`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               3. In the **Port range** box, type `6379` (same as above).
```

>                3. In the **Port range** box, type the port number for your cluster node. This number must be the same one that you specified when you launched the cluster. The default port for Redis is `6379`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               3. For **Port range**, type the port number for your cluster node. This number must be the same one that you specified when you launched the cluster. The default port for Redis is `6379`.
```

>                4. In the **Source** box, choose Anywhere which has the port range `(0.0.0.0/0)` so that any Amazon EC2 instance that you launch within your Amazon VPC can connect to your ElastiCache nodes.

Reviewer: not clear.
```suggestion
               4. In the **Source** box, choose Anywhere which has the port range `(0.0.0.0/0)` so that ant EC2 instance that you launch within your VPC can connect to your ElastiCache nodes.
```

>                5. Choose **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               5. Click on **Save**.
```

>          10. Connect the endpoint of your redis instance to the `plio-backend-staging` service that was created inside the `plio-staging-cluster` in Step `10`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         10. Connect the endpoint of your redis instance to the service created above.
```

>             1. Create a new revision of the task definition to add the redis endpoint as an environment variable

Reviewer: Need to mention that these value should be empty during the Task Definition creation

Reviewer: You also need to update the `docs/ENV.md` file

>                1. Go to the ECS dashboard and select `plio-staging-cluster`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               1. Go to the ECS dashboard and select `plio-staging-cluster`.
```

Reviewer: full-stops missing

               2. Select the `plio-backend-staging` service
               3. Go into the **Tasks** tab and select the running task definition in the **Task Definition** column

>                4. Click **Create new revision** button on the top, scroll down to the section **Container Definitions** and select the existing container name - `plio-backend-staging`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               4. Click **Create new revision** and select the existing container - `plio-backend-staging`
```

>                5. In the new window, scroll down to **Environment Variables** section and add the following keys and their values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               5. Update the `REDIS_HOSTNAME` and `REDIS_PORT ` keys in the `Environment Variables` section
```

                  ```
                  REDIS_HOSTNAME: <your elasticache redis endpoint>
                  REDIS_PORT: <your elasticache redis port>
                  ```
                  To find the redis endpoints, see [this](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonElastiCache/latest/red-ug/Endpoints.html)

>                6. After adding/updating the redis hostname and port, click the **Update** button and **Create** button to create a new revision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               6. Save the updated task definition.
```

>                7. Go back again to the service `plio-backend-staging` that exists inside `plio-staging-cluster` and click **Update** on top right. In the new window, update the revision of the task definition that you created in the step before. This will add the redis hostname and port to your environment variables. The new revision of the task definition will take some time to start up and applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               7. Go back to the service `plio-backend-staging` and click **Update**. 
               8. Update the revision of the newly created task definition and wait for it to get initiated.
```

>                8. After the new task definition shows the status as `RUNNING`, select the older task definition and click `STOP` on the top right to stop the definition.

Reviewer: better to divide this into multiple individual steps - too much of hierarchy.

>                8. After the new task definition shows the status as `RUNNING`, select the older task definition and click `STOP` on the top right to stop the definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               8. After the new task definition starts running, stop the older task definition.
```

12. Next, go to your GitHub repository and create a new environment from the settings tab.
    1. Name the environment as `Staging`.
    2. Make sure you have added the following GitHub secrets on repository level. If not, add these as your environment secrets.
       - AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
       - AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
       - AWS_REGION

13. We are using Github Actions to trigger deployments. You can find the workflow defined in `.github/workflows/deploy_to_ecs_staging.yml`. It defines a target branch such that a deployment is initiated whenever a change is pushed to the target branch.

14. Once done, push some changes to the target branch so that the GitHub workflow `deploy_to_ecs_staging.yml` gets triggered.

## Production

Setting up a production environment on AWS is almost the same as staging. Additionally, take care of the following things:
1. Rename all services as `plio-backend-production` or a similar naming convention.

> 2. Change the redis endpoint to the production instance instead of the staging one (if they are different for your case)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Change all the environment variables to the corresponding values for the production environment.
```
